["MANIFESTO ", "OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY A spectre ", "is haunting Europe -- the spectre ", "of Communism. All the Powers of ", "old Europe have entered into a ", "holy alliance to exorcise this spectre: ", "Pope and Czar, Metternich and Guizot, ", "French Radicals and German police-spies. Where ", "is the party in opposition that ", "has not been decried as Communistic ", "by its opponents in power? Where ", "the Opposition that has not hurled ", "back the branding reproach of Communism, ", "against the more advanced opposition parties, ", "as well as against its reactionary ", "adversaries? Two things result from this ", "fact. I. Communism is already acknowledged ", "by all European Powers to be ", "itself a Power. II. It is ", "high time that Communists should openly, ", "in the face of the whole ", "world, publish their views, their aims, ", "their tendencies, and meet this nursery ", "tale of the Spectre of Communism ", "with a Manifesto of the party ", "itself. To this end, Communists of ", "various nationalities have assembled in London, ", "and sketched the following Manifesto, to ", "be published in the English, French, ", "German, Italian, Flemish and Danish languages. ", "I. BOURGEOIS AND PROLETARIANS The history ", "of all hitherto existing societies is ", "the history of class struggles. Freeman ", "and slave, patrician and plebeian, lord ", "and serf, guild-master and journeyman, in ", "a word, oppressor and oppressed, stood ", "in constant opposition to one another, ", "carried on an uninterrupted, now hidden, ", "now open fight, a fight that ", "each time ended, either in a ", "revolutionary re-constitution of society at large, ", "or in the common ruin of ", "the contending classes. In the earlier ", "epochs of history, we find almost ", "everywhere a complicated arrangement of society ", "into various orders, a manifold gradation ", "of social rank. In ancient Rome ", "we have patricians, knights, plebeians, slaves; ", "in the Middle Ages, feudal lords, ", "vassals, guild-masters, journeymen, apprentices, serfs; in ", "almost all of these classes, again, ", "subordinate gradations. The modern bourgeois society ", "that has sprouted from the ruins ", "of feudal society has not done ", "away with class antagonisms. It has ", "but established new classes, new conditions ", "of oppression, new forms of struggle ", "in place of the old ones. ", "Our epoch, the epoch of the ", "bourgeoisie, possesses, however, this distinctive feature: ", "it has simplified the class antagonisms: ", "Society as a whole is more ", "and more splitting up into two ", "great hostile camps, into two great ", "classes, directly facing each other: Bourgeoisie ", "and Proletariat. From the serfs of ", "the Middle Ages sprang the chartered ", "burghers of the earliest towns. From ", "these burgesses the first elements of ", "the bourgeoisie were developed. The discovery ", "of America, the rounding of the ", "Cape, opened up fresh ground for ", "the rising bourgeoisie. The East-Indian and ", "Chinese markets, the colonisation of America, ", "trade with the colonies, the increase ", "in the means of exchange and ", "in commodities generally, gave to commerce, ", "to navigation, to industry, an impulse ", "never before known, and thereby, to ", "the revolutionary element in the tottering ", "feudal society, a rapid development. The ", "feudal system of industry, under which ", "industrial production was monopolised by closed ", "guilds, now no longer sufficed for ", "the growing wants of the new ", "markets. The manufacturing system took its ", "place. The guild-masters were pushed on ", "one side by the manufacturing middle ", "class; division of labour between the ", "different corporate guilds vanished in the ", "face of division of labour in ", "each single workshop. Meantime the markets ", "kept ever growing, the demand ever ", "rising. Even manufacture no longer sufficed. ", "Thereupon, steam and machinery revolutionised industrial ", "production. The place of manufacture was ", "taken by the giant, Modern Industry, ", "the place of the industrial middle ", "class, by industrial millionaires, the leaders ", "of whole industrial armies, the modern ", "bourgeois. Modern industry has established the "]